---
layout: default
modal-id: 3
title: ""
date: 2023-01-06
img: emb5.png
alt: image-alt
categories: category1 category2
---

<div align="center"><h3>If you are looking to improve your sailing experience and take advantage of the latest technology, setting up a Signal K server onboard your sailboat is a great place to start. With a Signal K server, you can connect your boat's various sensors and instruments to a central system, allowing you to monitor and control everything from a single interface. In this post, we'll provide a step-by-step guide on how to set up a Signal K server onboard your sailboat.</h3></div>

<br>
<br>

**Signal K provides a standardised data model that simplifies the process of integrating a wide range of sensors and devices with NauticApp. By using the Signal K protocol, embedded systems can communicate with NauticApp using a common data format, enabling easy integration with a variety of sensors and devices such as engine sensors, wind sensors, depth sensors, battery monitors, level sensors... etc This makes it possible to display and use this data within NauticApp, providing sailors with valuable information for navigation, sail trim, and power management.**

<br>

[The Signal K](https://signalk.org/) is an open-source standard for marine data exchange that enables different devices on a boat to share information in a standardized format. It defines a common language for marine data that can be easily understood and used by any device or software that supports the standard.

Signal K is useful for integrating marine data because it allows for seamless communication between different systems on a boat, such as sensors, navigation systems, and other devices. With Signal K, marine data can be exchanged in real-time and shared across multiple devices and software applications.

Signal K is designed to be flexible and scalable, which means that it can accommodate a wide range of data types and devices, from basic sensors to complex systems. Additionally, because Signal K is an open standard, it is accessible to anyone and can be freely implemented in a variety of applications and platforms.


<br>

The Signal K data model is a hierarchical structure that defines the various types of data that can be exchanged between devices and systems on a boat. At the top level, the data model is organized into categories such as Navigation, Environment, and System, each of which contains a set of standard data points that are defined by the Signal K specification.

Within each category, the data model is further organized into subcategories and data points, with each data point containing information about a specific aspect of the vessel's operation. For example, the Navigation category might include subcategories for Position, Course, and Speed, with each subcategory containing data points such as Latitude, Longitude, True Heading, and Speed Over Ground.

Signal K works by defining a common language that devices and software applications can use to communicate with each other. Each device or system on the boat can be configured to send and receive data in the Signal K format, which allows other devices and software to easily understand and interpret the data.

When a device or system sends data in the Signal K format, it includes information about the data point being transmitted, such as the category, subcategory, and data point name. This makes it easy for other devices and software to identify and interpret the data, regardless of the device or software manufacturer.

Signal K differs from other marine data protocols in several ways. First, it is designed to be an open standard, which means that it is accessible to anyone and can be freely implemented in a variety of applications and platforms. Second, Signal K is designed to be flexible and scalable, which allows it to accommodate a wide range of data types and devices, from basic sensors to complex systems. Finally, Signal K is designed to be extensible, which means that new data points and categories can be added to the data model as needed to support new devices and applications.



<br>

**Getting Signal K**

The first step in setting up a Signal K server is to choose your hardware and software. For hardware, you'll need a computer or single-board computer that can run the Signal K software. The Raspberry Pi is a popular choice for Signal K servers, but any computer that can run Node.js should work.

For software, you'll need to install the Signal K server software on your chosen computer. You can download the Signal K server software from the Signal K website, and installation instructions are provided in the documentation.

<br>

**Connect Your Sensors and Instruments**

Once you have your hardware and software set up, the next step is to connect your sensors and instruments to the Signal K server. Signal K is designed to be a plug-and-play system, so most sensors and instruments should be compatible out of the box. To connect your sensors and instruments, you'll need to use standard NMEA 0183 or NMEA 2000 connections.

<br>

**Configure Your Signal K Server**

With your hardware and sensors connected, the next step is to configure your Signal K server. This will involve setting up your Signal K network, configuring your sensors and instruments, and setting up any custom alerts or notifications you want to receive.

The Signal K server software provides a web interface that you can use to configure your system. You can access this interface by navigating to http://localhost:3000 (assuming you're running the server on the same computer you're using to access the web interface). From here, you can configure your system using the menus and settings provided.


<br>

**Connecting Signal K to NauticApp**

Connecting Signal K to NauticApp is a relatively straightforward process that involves configuring both applications to communicate with each other over a network connection. 

Configure Signal K to broadcast data over the network. By default, Signal K is configured to broadcast data on your local network using the mDNS protocol. However, you may need to adjust the network settings to ensure that the data is being broadcast correctly. Consult the Signal K documentation for guidance on configuring network settings.

Install NauticApp on your mobile device. NauticApp is only available for Android (for now), and can be downloaded from the  Google Play.

Open NauticApp and tap the Signal K icon on the top right of the screen. Select "Data Sources" and then "Signal K" to configure the connection.

Enter the network address for your Signal K server. This will typically be the IP address of the computer or server running Signal K. If you're unsure of the IP address, you can use a network scanning tool to find it.

Configure the data points that you want NauticApp to display. From the "Data Sources" screen, select the data points that you want to display in NauticApp. You can choose from a variety of data points, including position, speed, and weather information.

Save your settings and exit the settings screen. NauticApp should now be connected to your Signal K server and displaying the selected data points.



<br>
