---
layout: post
modal-id: 2
title: "Microcontrollers "
date: 2023-01-06
img: emb4.png
alt: image-alt
categories: category1 category2
---

<br>
<div align="center"><h3>Microcontrollers are the brains of embedded systems, and are responsible for collecting data from sensors and communicating that data to other devices or servers. When it comes to building a Signal K server, choosing the right microcontroller is crucial, we'll take a look at some of the key factors to consider when choosing a microcontroller for your Signal K server.</h3></div>

<br>
<br>

**Processing Power**

One of the most important factors to consider when choosing a microcontroller for your Signal K server is processing power. The more processing power a microcontroller has, the more data it can handle and the faster it can communicate with other devices. Some microcontrollers that are commonly used for Signal K servers include the Raspberry Pi and Arduino boards.

<br>

**Input/Output Pins** 

Another important factor to consider when choosing a microcontroller for your Signal K server is the number of input/output (I/O) pins it has. These pins are used to connect sensors and other devices to the microcontroller, so you'll need to make sure that the microcontroller you choose has enough pins to support all of the sensors and devices you plan to use.

<br>

**Connectivity**

Signal K servers rely on connectivity to communicate with other devices and servers. When choosing a microcontroller for your Signal K server, it's important to consider what types of connectivity options are available. Some microcontrollers, such as the Raspberry Pi, come with built-in Wi-Fi and Ethernet connectivity, while others may require additional hardware or modules to connect to the internet.

<br>

**Power Consumption** 

If you're building a battery-powered Signal K server, power consumption is an important factor to consider when choosing a microcontroller. Some microcontrollers are more power-efficient than others, which can help to extend battery life and reduce power consumption.

<br>

**Cost** 

Finally, cost is always a consideration when choosing a microcontroller. Some microcontrollers can be quite expensive, while others are more affordable. It's important to find a microcontroller that meets your needs and fits within your budget.